No one is born a good CEO. I think
people are basically born good founders
[music] or said differently it's innate.
You don't have to learn how to be a good
founder. The job of CEO is completely
counterintuitive and almost all of your
intuition about what to do is wrong. We
founders were taught to learn by doing
and that's great for a founder. It's not
good as a CEO. You do not want to learn
on the job how to [music] be a CEO. And
so I learned the hard way and it was
really about not apologizing about how
you want to run [music] a company, being
in the details.
Before we hit go here, we were talking
about industrial [music] design, which
you studied at Risie. And I have this
weird affinity for the history of this
topic just because Raymond Loey, one of
the famous industrial designers, helped
me a lot in my career indirectly. I'd
love to hear you just riff on the
influence that guys like him had in your
early studies and why you studied that
in the first place. Such an interesting
background.
>> I went to I was an artist growing up,
but I didn't know what to do with my
life. And I went to the Rhode Island
School of Design and at Risy when you're
a freshman, you have to pick a major.
>> I'm 17 years old and I'm like, "Okay, in
three months I have to decide what I'm
going to do the rest of my life." And
there were 18 majors. And I remember the
department head for industrial design
came. I never even heard of the term
industrial design. I don't know what it
was. And they said industrial design,
design of everything from a toothbrush
to a spaceship and everything in
between. I immediately said that's what
I want to do with my life cuz I was
thinking of maybe being an architect or
something like that. And so I started
learning about industrial design and I
learned about Charles from Ray Emmes.
Raymond Loey. Raymond Loey probably the
most important industrial designer of
the 20th century. Designed so many
incredible products. his first designer,
Air Force One. He designed like, you
know, a lot of like consumer products,
very beautiful consumer products. He had
a profound impact, I think, on society.
And as I was studying the history of
industrial design, it was so incredible
cuz industrial design field is a deeply
technical field. The thing about
architecture is fairly technical, but
the it's a more known boundary. Like
there's buildings and there's
commercial, there's residential, there's
retail, there's only so much variation.
It's a multi,000-y old like field.
Industrial design for the most part
really started with Josiah Wedgwood. It
was like it's really the mass industrial
products. So, industrial design is
really new from the industrial
revolution. And it used to be analog
things. The first industrial design was
chairs and tabletop dishes and bowls.
But as technology grows, suddenly
industrial design becomes cars and
airplanes. And now you have microwaves
and refrigerators. And then eventually
it becomes like medical equipment. And
then you know with computers the most
famous industrial design probably in the
world is the iPhone. And the vastness of
industrial design is unbelievable.
The intimate relationship you have with
a product is incredible. I remember in I
grew up in the 1980s. I love video
games. I like I played with a Game Boy,
a Game Gear, Super Nintendo. These
devices or remember Nike in the 80s and
90s. Those sneakers that were the Reebok
pumps. These products captured kids
imaginations and they had a very
intimate relationship with you. They
really had a sense of personality and
and computers in particular were
something I was really really interested
in. And then of course you get to the
golden age of Apple starting probably in
1998 with the iMac and and Johnny IV who
was like my hero. So I went to Risie and
when I was at Risie Apple was the golden
age of industrial design. They really
[clears throat] educated the public
about design. Once they're educated,
they couldn't unsee great products. And
that really like captured my
imagination. And what I loved about
industrial design was a it was very
technical. You work with mechanical
engineers, you work with electrical
engineers. B here's the thing about
industrial design. It's almost different
than any other design. This is also true
of fashion design. A design is only
successful if it sells. So if we design
an office building, like architects can
win awards in their office building and
it can never get leased. You you can
design a house but no one looks at well
what was the retail value of the house.
So it the wards are detached from the
commercial success. If you design a
product and no one buys it, it's
considered a failure. And so because the
commercial success matters, you have to
think about marketing, manufacturing,
distribution, solving problems. It's not
just about winning awards. It's about
being viable to a customer. The other
thing is it's very much a problem
solving field. It's got so many
different boundaries and it's very much
about empathy, about user journeys. You
know, more than I think any other design
field, I think industrial design always
seemed like it was the kind of field
where you put yourself in the shoes of
the user and you design these user
journeys. And I think they really teach
industrial design through user journeys.
I don't think they teach graphic design
that way. At least they didn't at the
time. It's a very specific type of
field. And I think that really prepared
me for designing. I just to give you one
example. One of the projects I designed
when I graduated Risie was a child's
ventilator. And so instead of just
thinking about like a child's breathing
machine, instead of just thinking about
the design of the ventilator, one of the
projects I had to do was imagine being
the child in a hospital. And so I had to
imagine being a child. It's hard to do,
but you're 6 years old. Imagine you're
being six and you're scared. You're
looking up at a breathing machine. And
imagine the parents, the parents go in
and the parents are like, "Is my child
going to be okay?" If this breathing
machine seems like ominous and like it's
keeping you alive, the parents are going
to freak out like what's wrong with my
child.
>> The other thing is I learned that one of
the interesting things that happened was
the nurse technicians, they had no
problem that these things were
complicated. But the hospital wanted a
breathing machine that was so simple
that everyone can learn how to use it.
Except the nurse technicians had pride
that only they knew how to use it. So
you had to like weigh the stakeholders.
How do you design something from the
vantage point of a child? consider the
the how would it imbus to the parents?
How can it be universally useful for
everyone without threatening people's
jobs? You see, there's so many
dimensions and that just I think really
prepared me for this field and I think
it's there's a reason why I became a CEO
because there's no product managers in
industrial design like you are the PM.
There's industrial designers and there's
engineers and there's program managers.
So, industrial designer is the product
manager. So a design product is one
function.
>> Do you think the world's going to go
that way now? You were obviously famous
for helping usher in this founder mode
idea.
>> It seems like there's now that was kind
of preopus 4.6 or whatever. There's like
another layer to that now. I'm curious
what we would call it. But it seems like
for the first time again someone even
like you running a very large company
with lots of people
>> can disintermediate lots of the steps
between idea and outcome
>> and this design stuff maybe even more
applicable than ever. What is the new
mode like? like how would you describe
because everyone's trying to figure out
how do I run a company in this era? So
how would you describe the new
capabilities and the mode through the
lens of of this? I mean basically yeah
like founder mode was something that
Paul Graham coined but based on
experience I had and the experience I
basically had was like I felt like I was
a just to back up I think people are
basically born good founders or said
differently it's innate you don't have
to learn how to be a good founder no one
is born a good CEO and the job of CEO is
completely counterintuitive and almost
all of your intuition about what to do
is wrong like you listen to somebody and
you're like they tell you something you
want to agree with them and then you got
to be careful know if you agree with
them without getting the other side. You
know, like there's a lot of things that
are counterintuitive about being a CEO.
And so the problem is we founders never
were really prepared to be great CEOs.
And I think we founders were taught to
learn by doing. And that's great for a
founder. It's not good as a CEO. You do
not want to learn on the job how to be a
CEO. In other words, trial and error is
bad for CEO. You know why trial and
error is really bad? Because you hire
somebody, they build an empire, they
leave, and now you got to unwind their
empire. and it takes like four years.
So, you've wasted years. So, actually
learning how to be CEO is something you
should learn. And so, [snorts] I learned
the hard way. And I basically learned
that what happened was founders were
overdelegating their companies to these
professional managers. I'm not
disparaging them, but they were
detaching themselves and they were being
managed rather than managing the
company. And it was really about not
apologizing about how you want to run a
company, being in the details. That was
founder mode. Was there a moment that
that like clicked for you that you had
to change the mode?
>> Yes. The pandemic. Two things happened.
Actually, speaking of Johnny Ivan, Apple
um and another person named Heroki here.
So, I spent the 2010s riding a rocket
ship. Airbnb, Uber, a few of us. We went
on these crazy rocket ships that like,
you know, Open Anthropic are doing now.
It was awesome. It was amazing. But by
the end of the last decade around 2019,
I remember waking up one day and it was
like completely unrecognizable the
company I was running. I mean, I had
like 7,000 employees. I didn't know what
anyone was doing. I felt like I was in a
car without a steering wheel. And I just
could not turn the company. I was like,
"Turn left." And the company would go
right. And and actually, not only did I
feel like I was not in control, I don't
think anyone felt like they were in
control. It was just a free-for-all. And
it was just thousands of thousands of
decisions being made for me. uh me
overly deferring, not listening to my
intuition. And I got to this point where
I remember having this dream where I I
and I told my co-founders, I had a dream
in late 2019 where I felt like I'd left
the company for 10 years and I'd come
back and I was like somebody had been
running the company for 10 years and
they like kind of turned it into this
like giant political bureaucracy and I
didn't even recognize the company and
then I realized, oh my god, it was me
the whole time. And so it was my fault.
like I had actually enabled all this to
happen and then I started talking to
people and they all had the same
experience and all these founders felt
like we were all made to feel crazy
because you know um we had this
instinct. The pandemic was what it was.
So around the same time as the pandemic
I hired a guy named Heroki Asai he was
from Apple and he told me about how
Steve Jobs ran Apple and Steve Jobs when
he came back to Apple in 1997 in July of
1997 there were nine days from
bankruptcy and he basically just like
went into founder mode. what you call
founder mode. He got into the details of
every little detail and I wanted to do
that but initially the company braced
against it. It was it was almost like
this um it repelled against it and then
the pandemic happened and we lost 80% of
our business in 8 weeks. We were in
total crisis mode at that moment. I went
from peace time to wartime
>> and then I just totally took control of
the entire company and I just never let
go. Basically what I did is I reviewed
every single thing for 2 three years. I
worked like a 100 hours a week, reviewed
every little detail of the company. My
vision wasn't do this forever. My vision
wasn't to micromanage forever. My vision
was before I empower people, I need to
know what's going on. This notion that
great leadership is hiring great people
and trust them to know what to do. Well,
how do you know they're great if you're
not auditing what they're doing? And you
actually want to start hands-on under
control and give ground grudgingly.
Everyone does the opposite. They let go.
They hire someone. They go in the wrong
direction. And by the way, that's bad
for the leader. You're not training
them. So to bring it back to your
question, that's founder mode. We need
AI founder mode.
>> AI founder mode is going to be even more
intense than founder mode.
>> I'm not yet ready to tell you what that
is. I'm in the middle of it. But um
>> what are the principles that you're
thinking about as you go into it? Like
even if you don't have it ironed out
yet,
>> I think AI founder mode, you're even in
significantly more details because you
have almost everything on demand, right?
like the mechanism of founder mode was I
had a lot of meetings because that was
the only way I get information. So I
probably did 35 hours of meetings which
is very similar to the way Steve ran
Apple. Um you know so I wouldn't do
one-on- ones. I'd only do group
meetings. I'd do a recurring thing where
I review every single thing in the
company either on a weekly basis by
monthly or quarterly live in person
group meeting and I'd have a full chain
of command.
>> So [snorts] I used to tell people like
you know a lot of companies you have to
like get your boss to prove it and your
boss's boss to prove it and your boss's
boss's boss to prove it. I'd have the
full chain of command in the room and
anyone can give their opinion. I would
make all the final decisions. I would
not speak first. I'd usually speak last
and I'd usually agree with the team, but
10% of the time I'd disagree, but I'd
ratify every decision. It was a very
clear chain of command. But this is a
meeting based culture. I think [snorts]
in AI, I think we're going to move away
from meeting based to asynchronous and
we're fairly remote and so I think that
will benefit us. I think you're going to
have a lot fewer layers of management.
You know, I think there was an old
famous saying, the Catholic Church has
been going on for 2,000 years, only have
four layers of management. Why do every
other company have like seven, eight,
nine layers of management? I know
there's this like general idea like as a
thought experiment, what if I could
theoretically manage all 7,000 people
flat? I don't think that's a good idea.
I think that's an extreme, but I do
think going to a few layers of
management would make a lot of sense.
We're in the I'm in the middle of trying
to think about how to redesign the
company. I think every single person in
this company's job will change. What I'm
amazingly doing now is trying to get
people to adopt AI tools and I want to
see how everyone's job changes in the
world of AI tooling and then I want to
basically embark on like a fundamental
redesign. I don't think people managers
will have any value in the future. When
I mean people managers, people that only
manage people. I think everyone's going
to have to be a hybrid people manager or
manager IC.
>> Meaning they have to have contact with
reality in some sense like a thing a
customer end up seeing or
>> yes an engineer recall they have to be
technical. In other words, they have to
be um every engineer needs a code. Even
the managers need to code and whatever
the version of that is for your field,
you need a code. So, if you're a lawyer,
you're just not managing people. You
have to actually read the case law and
you have to get involved. And that makes
sense, right? Like you can't just be
like these managers where you're kind of
people's therapists and you're just
doing meetings, you're doing one-on
ones. Like I I do not think people who
have lots of recurring one-on- ones are
not going to survive because what
they're doing is like that. Oh, you come
with me with whatever your problem is.
I'm here to help you. Like a mentor or
professor. That kind of leadership style
is not going to work. You need to have
context. And I think [snorts] I think a
lot of people will survive this age of
AI. The two types of people that will
not survive the age of AI are two types
of people. Pure people managers who like
think it's all about just leadership.
No, it's about content and leadership.
And by the way, like you like I I hear
about design leaders that like the heads
of design, they don't actually manage
the design. Johnny IV manages design. He
designs and he leads people. A design
leader who only manages the people.
That's crazy to me. The way Frank Lloyd
managed his design team is through the
work. I say you manage people through
the work. You don't manage the people,
you manage the work. Otherwise, what are
you doing? I mean, yeah, like maybe a
couple times a year you should have like
a check-in and go out to dinner with a
direct report, have a heartto-he heart,
ask them about their family, like build
relationships. You should do that. You
should have relationships. That's not a
day-to-day thing. You're not their
therapist. You're managing people
through the work. So the two types of
people will not make the shift to AI are
pure people managers and people that are
rigid and don't want to change and
evolve. As long as you're like got a
growth mindset, I think the tools are
going to be very easy. There's an
economic incentive for the tools to be
so easy everyone can figure them out. So
I don't think the AI tools are going to
be complicated. Right now there's a lot
of command line. I think Claudebot and
Co-work are not the most intuitive to an
average person, but I think economic
incentives will be for this to become
incredibly intuitive. And I think maybe
one last thought is AI is really an
enterprise thing right now. If you take
out Chacht and like people screwing
around like image generation, it's
pretty much just an enterprise
phenomenon. I'm on the board of Y
Comair. 175 companies last batch. 159
were enterprise. There are no consumer
companies. Because there's new consumer
companies, the incentive to make the
interfaces really simple is not there
>> because it's their job to figure out the
interface. The next wave of AI is going
to be consumer AI. Consumer AI is going
to be the big prize. Can you think of a
consumer AI company? You know, maybe
open AI, but most their energy is now
going to codeex. Google, yeah, with
Gemini, but most of it's still going to
search. They don't want to cannibalize
their business. So, I think that's where
it's all going to go. And I'm trying to
start thinking about AI as a consumer
play and how do we make tools so simple
that everyone here can figure out how to
use them.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. RAMP does the exact
opposite. RAMP understands that [music]
no one wants to spend hours chasing
receipts, reviewing expense reports, and
checking for policy violations. So they
built their tools to give that time back
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
RAMP saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on RAM, Stripe [music]
runs on RAMP, and my business does, too.
To see what happens when you eliminate
the busy work, check out
ramp.com/invest.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent that turns a single prompt into
finished clientready work using [music]
your firm's own templates, context, and
standards. Send Felix an email like,
"Take these comments and turn them for
me." Or, "Udate my tracker with the
context of these [music] emails." or run
the ability to pay math on this buyer
and Felix sends back finished PowerPoint
decks, [music]
Excel models, and sourced research.
Felix works the way your team already
does, delivering work quickly and
accurately around the clock. Learn more
at rogo.ai/felix.
[music]
OpenAI, Cursor, Enthropic, Perplexity,
and Verscell all have something in
common. They all use WorkOS. And here's
[music] why. To achieve enterprise
adoption at scale, you have to deliver
on core capabilities like SSO, skim,
arbback, and audit logs. That's where
work OS comes in. Instead of spending
months building these missionritical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
work OS APIs to gain all of them on day
zero. That's why so many of the top AI
teams you hear about already run on work
OS. Work OS is the fastest way to become
enterprise ready and stay focused on
what matters most, [music] your product.
Visit works.com to get started. It's
it's surprising that so few have tackled
consumer so many of the biggest
companies in history are consumer
companies. You built one of the great
consumer companies of the last
generation of companies. What advice
would you give to people that do want to
build consumer businesses using this
technology? Like if the next batch of YC
startups were to invert because of your
advice what would you tell them? How
would you guide them?
>> Yeah, this is really interesting. Here
are the here are the three or four
reasons I think it's happening. Number
one, I think a lot of people when Chach
came out were afraid.
>> They're afraid Chachet P was going to
kill their business. And I think a lot
of investors didn't want to invest in
something where they thought Chachet was
going to kill it. Number two, the
business model is tricky. Chetchup,
there is no yet consumer business model
for um AI that I've seen. Um for
example, Chacht, there's three ways it
can monetize. Subscriptions.
Unfortunately, they're probably going to
hit a local maximum percentage of users
subscribing because Claude and Gemini
are giving away for free. Ads, again,
they're hitting a local maximum because
Claude Gemini are not going to do ads.
And then e-commerce, they shut down the
third party apps. And the inference
costs are expensive enough that, you
know, it's just they're burning a lot of
money. And so, I think the first thing
is you need to have a business model
around consumer AI. You can't just be in
a business of information because people
are not trained to pay for information.
They're not trained to do that. So
that's the first problem. The second
problem is distribution is mature. Now
again, top three apps in app store are
AI. So it does prove you have something
revolutionary. You'll find your way to
the top. The third thing is while I
think Silicon Valley we like to we like
to describe ourselves as rebels. I think
and maybe it's a little bit like the
always on nature of Twitter. I think
it's very trend based and vibe based. I
think there's a sense that like everyone
there's a little bit of like everyone
kind of does what everyone kind of does.
That makes sense. I think the trend is
enterprise. The other thing is with Y
cominator and this is this is I'm on the
board of Y comorator so I have a good
like like we tell um entrepreneurs get a
YC other YC startups to be your first
users. It's a really great distribution
strategy right like the way we got our
first users is you do things that don't
scale. Now what happened was that has
taken the logical extension that
everyone just keeps making enterprise
companies. Maybe finally the reason
people aren't doing consumer companies
they're just harder. They're more hits
driven. The prize is bigger but the risk
is higher. It's more all or nothing. You
can pick a narrow vertical build a good
medium to largesiz business. It's pretty
straightforward. You can get other YC
companies to adopt it and you can grow
into larger and larger enterprise. You
can pick a sliver vertically integrate
with AI. It's very straightforward. It
is much more history-driven business.
You have to be good at a lot more
things. You generally have to be better
at design, marketing, culture, press.
Like it's not purely, you know,
technology and sales, which is what I'd
say enterprise is like you make a
product, it can be a technology based
product. Often times in enterprise, the
person using the product is not the
person buying the product. And so sales
becomes really important, but you can
start sales really small with smart and
companies. It's really hard to figure
out how do you start small consumer like
who do you start with on the street?
>> [snorts]
>> So I think these are the reasons why my
prediction is that we're living in the
age of enterprise AI and I think in the
next 12 to 24 months you're going to see
the beginning of a consumer AI
renaissance.
>> I mean almost every app on my home
screen has not changed fundamentally
since AI including Airbnb and
>> I think that's going to change in two
years.
>> Yeah. on your most recent earning call,
you referenced this thing, Project
Hawaii, I think it was called, which is
like the on the ground direct
application of the soon to be defined
founder AI mode or whatever.
>> Maybe just describe what that is and how
you as an incumbent consumer company are
trying to make yourself into one of
these AI companies and and sort of like
what's possible with a project like
this.
>> This is such a great story. So, you
know, I had this conundrum.
We had like 7,000 people or I we we were
down to 5,000
and I needed to I wanted to like
basically take the magic of the founding
of the company, the early stages. We
were in this little apartment working
together and I wanted to work with like
this team of 10 people and I wanted to
like have that team work in one problem.
We said let's put a team together to
focus on improving the guest experience,
improving conversion rate. Conversion
rate is basically search to book. The
conversion rate of people typing in a
location and dates and booking
>> and there's a funnel and you can
basically measure the funnel and you can
do AB test. But more than AB testing, I
wanted to do something where the
northstar was let's make the experience
better and increase conversion. We're
going to start with a better user
experience. And so we put together a
team of like I think it was like 10 or
12 people, designers, engineers, a
couple product people, data scientists.
This is mostly just a pure software team
and we treated it like a little startup
and we said we're going to just focus
and we're going to do a system of crawl,
walk, run, then fly. Crawl, fix the
bugs, fix the problems of convers.
Once you build a little bit more um
confidence, walk start to do start to
develop features like really start to
reframe the journey then run rethink the
entire flow big features fly like
completely re yourself and everything is
going to be measured. The team's results
were phenomenal. They ended up
delivering the equivalent of I think in
year one $200 million in internal
revenue for the company. The following
year was like $400 or $500 million. Now,
you know, we're at a run rate of like
over 600 basis points. 600 basis points
of 134 billion dollars. You get the
sense of how much of a lever that is. It
was just one team. I mean, it maybe it
grew into dozens and dozens of people,
maybe 50 or 60 people. But it was this
really lean team. We took that team. We
said, what if we apply to the next
problem? Pricing.
>> Same people,
>> another team, totally different team,
same model, then another model, then
another model. So it was really and I
really tried to work with a team and
initially I would meet with them every
week and then it became every other week
and then every month and you know my
general philosophy is start really
hands-on and let go over time. It's like
I'm not a golfer but like I took a
couple golf lessons like a golf
instructor. The Here's an analogy for
management. If you learn golf, you you
want to learn with a golf instructor
before you build any habits because if
you learn on your own, you're going to
like have a weird swing and then when
you get a golf instructor, they got to
change your muscle memory. So the golf
instructors got to watch you swing like
thousands of times. Eventually, they
don't need to see it. You let go over
time. What most founders do is the
opposite. They develop, they bring these
people in, they let them figure it out,
and then they intervene later, but they
already have the wrong muscle memory.
So, I decided I'm going to be totally
hands-on. I'm going to do everything
with a team, teach them everything I
know and let go. Then do it the next
team. And then I had teams learn from
other teams. Then when we launched
services, experiences, we basically
found this this other way of innovating.
So here's a riddle or it was a riddle to
me. Airbnb, we had this core business
that was really successful. It did
nearly hundred billion dollars a year in
gross sales. For every thousand dollars
spent in the world, $1 was spent on an
Airbnb.
>> Except we had the problem of we're like
a one-hit wonder. And for 18 years, I
couldn't get a second hit out. And I
kept wondering like why am I why is this
not working? And the answer is like too
obvious. It was staring us in the face.
But we kept having the burden of trying
to scale these businesses at a global
scale from the beginning. When we
started Airbnb, we started in one city,
New York City. We had 100 users. I was
in Y Comer. Paul Graham goes, "Where are
your users?" I'm like, "They're in Y
Com." I'm like, "They're in New York."
We have like not many, but they're in
New York. He goes, "You're in Mountain
View. Users in New York. What are you
doing here? Go to Mountain View." We
went door todoor meeting the users. The
basic philosophy is make the problem as
small as possible. Get to product market
fit, then scale. So, we launched service
experiences last year and it didn't work
right away. And I'm like, "Oh shit." We
launched service experiences a hundred
cities.
>> And I went back and I thought to myself,
"Wait a second. Airbnb launched in New
York, Uber launched in San Francisco,
Door Dash launched like Palo Alto. Let's
make the problem small and just perfect
a city. And so we started doing this
with new businesses. We basically go to
any new business, we're going to do one
to 10 to many. We'll pilot in one
market. Any idea if we get the market to
work, we'll go to 10.
>> You get to 10, it works, we'll
industrialize.
We took us 16 years to get to our second
and third business. We started getting
those two working. Now we have like 10
to 20 pilots. Eventually we'll have 70
50 to 70 new verticals. So these are the
this is like the Hawaii system. It's
basically taking this giant company
making it a really small elite team. So
the Navy it's like the Navy Seals. I
work with the teams really really
leanly. Make the problem as small as
possible. I think that's a key thing.
Make the problem as small as possible.
Dominate a niche. Peter Teal used to say
this. He was one of our first investors.
He said, "It's better to have a monopoly
of a tiny market than a small share of a
big market."
>> This is counterintuitive. Every investor
wants to go into big markets. I don't
like big markets. Big markets have a lot
of competition. Go into a small market
and make it big.
>> Is the reason for both of these things,
the idea that it works in Toronto, but
not at 100 scale, you know, 100 city
scale. And the reason a 10 person team
can outperform a 100 person team.
>> Is this is the shared reason some sort
of like better contact with reality? And
like somehow reality starts getting
distorted. Yeah. as you get bigger or
something.
>> The general principle, this comes back
to the most important piece of advice I
ever got. The first day Y Cominator,
Paul Graham said, "It's better to have
100 people love you than a million
people sort of like you." And that came
from Paul Bukite. Paul Bukite was a
partner Y Cominator. He created Gmail.
And I think that this old famous story
was he created Gmail and it took him two
years and they said, "You can't ship
until a 100 people inside of Google
loved it."
>> And actually took like a two years to
get 100 people to actually like the
product. But once a 100 people like
something, 100 million people like it.
It's like the sample size is enough. And
so the problem is you try to make
something a million people like, you
can't talk to a million people. And so
you end up like with this shallow
swimming pool, it's like you're trying
to heat up an ocean. And the ocean just
it takes too long to heat up and you
can't tell. Instead of heating up an
ocean, heat up a bathtub and like just
make the problem as small as possible
and you're close to the customer. In
fact, if you only are focused on one
city or even a subset of city, you can
talk to every person. You can put all
these resources on a tiny problem. And I
guarantee you take a ton of resources
you put on a tiny problem. The smaller
the problem, the more you'll change the
numbers, the trajectory
>> and that will teach you lessons. And
there's you do things that don't scale,
then you scale. And the scaling is
industrialization.
>> But product market fit is a distinct
problem from industrialization. So you
want to basically make the promise as
small as possible. Understand the user.
Put yourself in their shoes. Blow their
mind. Do things you've never thought
before. Do them by hand. Make them
unscalable. Don't worry how much it
costs. Just prove the model. In other
words, it's like R&D.
>> This is a lot like industrial design.
>> This is what we call prototyping. Before
you manufacture something, you prototype
and you make prototype after prototype
after prototype
>> and until you make something that you
love for yourself or someone loves. So
yes, the smaller the problem, the more
there's fewer abstraction layers. You're
actually on the ground. You're talking
to people and that's how you prove it.
Hawaii to these pilots. It's all the
same thing. By the way, same thing with
AI. You're removing abstraction layers
and you're going you're making the
problem as small as possible. You're
going directly to the source. I think
that's a principle that all these things
have in common.
>> It's like we're playing this game of
telephone.
>> Yes.
>> If we don't do it that way. Yes. Yes.
And you just lose information each each
time communication.
>> And this is why founders don't like
running large companies
>> because they end up in a game of
telephone. They say something and then
it goes down like five layers and then
it goes back up five layers and then
these like meetings and the meetings
become like system reviews and literally
like the lowest point for me when I was
when I was having meetings about
meetings.
>> It was like very meta.
>> You've gotten into this new mode. It's
called founder mode. It's now called CEO
mode. Do you think you're now a good
CEO?
I think I am I think I was naturally
good founder although I would say I also
got really lucky um because I had two
great co-founders and damn did I luck
out on that. I think I was a very good
early stage CEO and I think the moment I
had to have like an executive team I
really struggled to make the shift from
a founder to CEO. I really struggled and
I think in the 2010s I do not think I
was a great CEO and I think that we paid
the price for my learning curve
and I think the pandemic was a rude
awakening for me. I think I was conflict
averse. By the way, somebody once said a
pitcher never takes himself off the
mound. As a manager, you got to go take
them off the mound. I was always helping
pe I didn't want to hurt people's
feelings. I wanted them to take them off
the mound. it would. And the longer you
leave a pitcher on the mound, the more
home runs they give up, like the more
upsetting they're get. And they're still
going to be angry at you no matter when
you take them off the mound. So, I don't
think I was naturally a good CEO. And I
remember during the the up to the
pandemic, at one point, I wonder, I
wonder if I'm just not meant to be a
CEO. Maybe I'm not meant to do it. And
then the pandemic happened. We had a
near-death experience and I said, well,
there's no I don't like I'm screw the
rumination. Like, like it's do or die.
And I feel like I learned how to do the
job. And there's really a few phases of
CEO. Have an idea, get to product market
fit. Product market fit to hyperrowth.
Hyperrowth scale to become a real
company. Real company as in profitable
public like and then the last stage and
I did all that, you know, we have like
40% free cash flow margin. We're very
profitable. We do hundred billion
dollars in sales, customer sales. the
last phase of a CEO's reinvent the
company product extension
>> and the reason our stock has been flat
is because we only do one thing and we
have kind of you know we've started to
saturate a little bit of the core idea
so we've had to reinvent ourselves we
had to do product extension so I still
got to prove myself
>> and then there's another proof point can
I navigate this transformation of AI
[snorts] by the way I think founder mode
is going to be the only way to operate
in the age of AI
>> if you're a giant professional CEO, I
think you can operate in a founder mode,
but if you're like, you know, risk
averse, you want to be incremental,
those types of people are not going to
>> survive the age of AI.
>> So, I think there was an old Albert
Einstein quote. He said, "The best way
to keep your uh balance on a bicycle is
to keep moving.
>> You're going to have to keep moving."
So, I think that like founders are going
to be really well primed or like really
well set up for this age of AI because
we kind of have to redesign our whole
company from scratch again. Was there
anything else that Heroki isn't Heroki
is that taught you? Because Steve was
perhaps the literal ultimate example of
everything you just said focused on the
details in the weeds forever reinvention
of the company.
>> Yeah. Heroki. So just just I would love
to say and before I say just to say who
Heroki is, everyone [snorts] knows
Johnny IV. Um Heroki is a bit of an
unsung hero. I always heard about him.
He was like this legendary mythical
figure that like was elusive. There's
like almost no photos of him online.
There's like no videos of him. He was
never out in front, but he was Steve
Jobs creative director. Um, it was a
function under marketing. He did the
ads. He did like the graphic design. He
was really responsible for, you know,
when he was like that black type with
the gray font and like the product in
front of white. Like that was really his
aesthetic. He taught me two principles
of Apple that I brought. One was
simplicity. When you start a company,
because you have no money and you're so
constrained, you're naturally simple.
Lack of abundance creates natural
constraints and so simplicity is thrust
upon you and that is good for you and
then once you raise a bunch of money and
hire a bunch of people you go to a lot
of directions then you lose your sense
of focus. How many startups can we think
of today who have struggled from lack of
focus probably name a few. So you start
to lose your muscle for simplicity.
Heroki taught me simplicity and he
taught me that simplicity is not
removing things. Simplicity is
distilling something. so fundamentally
that you understand its essence. I know
Steve used to say design is the
fundamental soul of a man-made creation
that reveals itself through subsequent
layers. In other words, isn't that
beautiful saying? In other words, great
design is about distilling something to
its essence. It's kind of what Elon does
with SpaceX where he talks about first
principles and first principles is kind
of like a physics term but is also a
design term. It's about understanding if
I'm going to reinvent this product, I
have to understand the properties of
glass. I have to understand like you
know I have to understand everything
about it to distill it to its essence.
So I got obsessed with simplicity.
Simplicity of our products, simplicity
of our organization, simplicity of
everything. The other one was a sense of
craft and details. How you do anything
is how you do everything. And I said
everything must be perfect. It comes
from um there's a book that a lot of
people in Silicon Valley recommend. the
score takes care of itself. Bill Walsh,
the coach of the San Francisco 49ers,
John Wooden winning as coach in college
basketball history, UCLA, same
principle. First day UCLA. So John
Wooden won 10 NCAA champions over 12
years. First day, first hour in his
team, he spends an hour teaching you how
to put your socks on.
>> One hour and he said, "Put your socks on
this way."
>> Mr. Miyagi.
>> Yeah. One hour teaching you how to put
your socks on. It's a metaphor.
Everything was that rigorous. Bill Wall
said the way you tuck your jersey into
your pants was one of 10,000 details
that depend on when you whether you won
or not. Basically, don't focus on
winning. Focus on getting all the inputs
perfect. And you get everything perfect
then you will win and you don't work
focus on the scorecard. And so we kind
of we do focus on growth, but we kind of
stopped focusing on growth. We started
focusing on making everything perfect.
And if everything is perfect and you
don't grow, then you focus on the wrong
inputs. But if you have the right inputs
and you make them perfect, then you'll
grow really fast. And so that's really
what I learned from him. And I just he
really taught me I think founder mode
cuz I never met Steve. So I only knew
through Heroki. And I said, "Well, I
love this. I'm an artist. I'm a
designer. I get to have more control of
the product. I get to make everything
perfect."
>> The initial attempt at founder mode
created giant revolts. Everyone hated it
because everyone thought I was
micromanaging them. taking their
and I learned something fundamental.
Initially, everyone hated it and by the
end everyone loved it. Now, the people
hated it left. So, maybe there's like
selection bias. The people liked it
stayed. But even the people that thought
they wanted autonomy and independence
and empowerment. What they didn't
realize was control and power is not
zero sum. It's not like if I have all
the power, you don't. There's a scenario
where we're all powerless. And there's
also scenario where if I have power, I
can therefore give you power. It's not
zero sum. This is the problem people
don't understand. If I have more power
and control, I can give you more power
control and I can hand it off to you.
It's about the idea that the car has a
steering wheel. You turn it left and it
actually goes left.
>> That's the basic idea. I do think it's
all about the company rowing in one
direction. That's it. Mhm.
>> The thing that you've said historically
that had the largest impact on me was
this notion of the 11star experience,
the exercise of going from not a
fivestar but a six-star and actually
forcing yourself to write it. And I have
this idea in mind because of this idea
of simplicity and distillation and it's
a beautiful thing, right? It's I guess
it's ultimately empathetic with the
customer. But why is that idea in
practice so powerful? Like what what
happens as you go down or up the star
count to 11 stars? Like why is that such
a valuable exercise? Let me do like a
one minute on what it is. So basically
when you book an Airbnb most people
leave a fivestar and if you leave a four
star it's a bad experience. Five star
everything went as planned. So it's
called review compression. Similar to
Uber you always leave a fivestar. And if
you leave anything other than a five
star something really went wrong. So but
what if the driver was really amazing
you can only leave a fivestar. So I
started imagining what if we could give
a six star and I did this exercise from
six to like 10 or 11 stars. So, a
fivestar, let's say take one moment
checking into Airbnb. Fivestar check-in
is you get there and the host greets you
or there's a door code and it works. In
other words, nothing went wrong. You
give a five star. Anything went wrong,
you give a four star less. But that's
that's like that's review compression.
Like what what if you went above and
beyond? So, what would a six-star look
like? A six-star would look like you
basically get to the Airbnb and there's
like your favorite wine on the table and
there's like fruit and there's snacks
there and there's a handwritten card.
Okay, that's better than just letting me
in the house. So, what's a sevenstar
experience? Sevenar experience, there's
like a limousine or something waiting
for me at the airport. They know I like
surfing. There's a surfboard waiting for
me and they're like showing me around
the city. There's all this stuff. So,
what's an eightstar experience? An eight
star experience, I get to the airport,
there's an elephant. I go on the
elephant. I go on a parade in my honor.
I'm like, "Wow, I feel really special."
What's a nine-star experience? I call it
the Beatles check-in. I get off the
plane and like 1964 Beatles. There's
5,000 teenage girls screaming my name
with cards making me feel like I'm a pop
star.
>> I get to the front lawn of the Airbnb
and there's a press conference in my
name. So, it's a 10star experience. 10
star experience. Elon Musk greets me and
takes me to space. Right. What you and
the reason you do this and it's it's an
exercise. It's an exercise in the
absurd. There is you keep pushing to go
so absurd to 10 stars that suddenly six
or seven stars doesn't seem crazy at
all. And the way to get to product
market fit is to just create a six or
seven star experience. But you can't
create a six or seven star experience
without going beyond.
>> In other words, go beyond the edge of
reality and work backwards. And so it's
kind of a fun exercise. You you what
would the craziest possible way to blow
someone's mind, one person's mind, one
customer, and maybe try that and maybe
you can't scale that because that's like
an eightstar experience, but you can
probably scale a six-star. And that
difference between the five and six star
is probably difference between you and a
competitor.
>> And if you can find a way to
industrialize it and scale it, you might
have product market fit and something
special.
>> One of the things that I think about
when you when you give some exert the
absurd examples at the high end of the
range is this feeling that I've
experienced with AI that my imagination
had almost atrophied.
>> Yes.
>> That by using these tools, I realized
how hard it was. Like, oh, I can make
anything. And I sit down, I'm like, I
have no idea what to make. And
that as I started making little things
like all of a sudden my imagination got
rebooted and it feels like this exercise
is like an imagination exercise.
>> It is like
>> one of the sayings is like great writing
is great thinking but I find that like I
don't know about you some people like
have ideas and they think of the ideas
and they write them down. Sometimes I
figure out the ideas through the act of
writing.
>> The act of writing is the act of coming
up ideas. The act of designing is the
act of coming up with ideas. It's really
hard to just sit in a room and abstract
we think of ideas. You need to like do
something. And so I think what was
happening was
we had didn't have enough tools to
express ourselves. I think a lot of the
tools were very passive tools. I think
increasingly we were spending more and
more time on a sitback experience like
social media. I think AI shifts our
attention from consumption to creation
>> because I mean social media a lot of us
spend our time on and the only type of
creation is like giving your opinion or
posting like but you're mostly
consuming. What I love about AI is it's
not about opinions. Suddenly all of us
have a paintbrush and a canvas to make
stuff [snorts] and I think that AI is
going to lead to a renaissance in
creativity. I was an artist growing up.
I was pretty good artist. So I had the
ability to express ideas. You ever
here's an analogy. You ever meet a
person like there's probably you could
probably think of musicians like Prince.
You name a musician that probably in
words couldn't express themselves like
you know but then through music there's
like this dimension you never knew. An
artist they're they're like they seem
really reserved but their art is like
really emotional.
So many of us have this creativity
inside of us, but we don't have the
craftsmanship or tools to express it.
And suddenly what AI is going to do is
going to give us the ability to express
it. We're going to realize there are a
lot more creative people than we
thought. Cuz we typically think of
creative people as people that know how
to express their creativity.
>> It turns out what if everyone can
express it. Pablo Picasso once said,
"All children are born artists. Their
problems remain artists as one grows
up." Every child's creative. If every
child's creative, that means every adult
could be creative. I think that every
humanist planet is creative.
>> You ask the average person you're
creative, about one in two says they're
not. That's my experience.
>> That's not true.
>> It's just that they haven't exercised
the muscle.
>> And I think that the magic of AI is
what's in our head can manifest. But
also, as you said, we can develop new
ideas in our head because it's a
relationship. We maybe have a small
idea, we try something, gives us another
idea and you go on this journey. A lot
of people call founders visionaries.
We're more expeditionaries.
We're on these expeditions. We only call
it visions later.
>> We're really just one foot in front of
the other.
Can you talk about the difference
between the act of creation in pursuit
of um achieve you said people pleasing
earlier achievement um notches on the
belt versus just for the raw pure joy of
it which seems to be more the way the
mode you're in now.
>> I think when I started Airbnb
I don't think we're totally trying to be
successful. I mean literally I won't go
through the whole founding story but
basically I inflated three air
mattresses and Airbnb stands for air bed
and breakfast. And I like to joke that
if I was trying to make money, I would
have come up with a better idea than air
bed and breakfast. I truly did it for
the love and the fun. And somewhere
along the way, I got really successful.
And that almost became a curse because
success became a scorecard. And then I
want to get even more successful. And I
it stopped being intrinsic and it
started being a version of status and
people pleasing. You see, it took me a
little while to realize
what I was doing. What I really wanted
was love. I learned growing up as a
child, the way to get love is to be
special. And the way to be special is to
do special things. And if I do special
things, I get praised and I feel loved.
And I think that translated into if I'm
if I'm really successful, I will get
agilation. And if I get agilation, I'll
feel that feeling that I'm always
seeking. And but I didn't do this
consciously. I'm not like saying this.
It took me many years to realize this is
what I was doing. The problem with
agilation, by the way, agilation is kind
of like seeking status. So many people
seek status, but the problem is that's
not where great products and great
companies come from. See, agilation is
like a cup with a hole at the bottom.
And you keep filling it in thinking it's
love, except it just keeps coming at the
bottom. And at some point, you have to
confront, who am I doing this for? Am I
doing it for other people? For them to
briefly love me and commend me to then
move on. And by the way, that's a drug
and it's a drug that like you need it's
like it's like real drugs. You need a
greater hit to get the high and
eventually it stops working and
eventually you reach a peak and it gets
really meaningless and empty. And that
happened to me. And at some point
around the pandemic,
we go public, we have a hundred billion
dollar valuation. It's like one of the
best days of my life. And the next day I
wake up as if it was we were on Zoom
because of the pandemic. And I wake up,
I like put on sweatpants, I go on a Zoom
meeting. It was like it never happened.
And it became like the saddest day of my
life cuz I realized, okay, what now?
What do I do now? I got all this
agilation and my life I I don't feel any
different.
>> And that made me like re-evaluate like
what I'm doing this for. I had to like
just come to terms with like I want to
like do things for pure intrinsic
reasons. And so I had to basically just
detach myself from people's approval,
from status, from worrying about like
how hot Airbnb is or how successful I
am, which I never gave a about when
we started. But like, you know, you
start getting accolades and you want
more of them. And you got to like let go
of that cuz it's a losing game. And I
just really started focusing on like
just being heads down. Do the work like
you used to do. Like when you were a
kid, there was light. Just make stuff.
Make it for yourself. that great book
Rick Rubin he says an artist is an
artist when they make it for themselves
and they don't try to make something
successful and I stopped trying to be
successful and I just went back to the
basics and I realized like a person who
doesn't know know you will never love
you that's okay the people love you and
the people that know you and the most
important person that's to love you is
yourself and just like and we should
love is the thing you're doing so this
became like a whole thing it became
about like just doing it because you
love it putting your heart and soul in
it. It's like the score takes care of
itself. It goes back to that. Don't try
to be successful. Try to do something
wonderful that you love for yourself.
And maybe you'll be successful, maybe
you don't, but don't focus on who you
want to be. Focus on what you want to
do. That was what Vice President Obama
once told me. He said, "If I focus on
who I want to be, I focus on being
president of the United States and I
wasn't, my life would have been a
failure. But if I focus on what I wanted
to do, I want to help people, I want to
be a community organizer, then I don't
need to be president." And so I think so
many entrepreneurs focus on what they
want to be. I want to be a giant tech
founder. I want to run a billion dollar
company. I want to do this. I want to do
that. Instead of focus on what do I want
to make
>> and [clears throat] then suddenly
there's no way to fail if you're making
what you love.
>> It's an incredible set of ideas. I'm
curious what most fell away in your life
in this recent period as a result of
this shift in mindset. Like what do you
do less of that you used to do a lot of
when you stopped chasing agilation?
>> Mostly ruminating.
>> You ruminate less.
>> Yeah. just like worrying about like
worrying about people's opinions of me.
There's something mildly narcissistic
about like worrying about everyone's
opinions as if they're all thinking
about you.
>> No one is
>> like like the reality is like even
people watching this like I'm going to
be self-conscious except for a moment
they're going to think about me but then
they're going to be mostly thinking
about themselves and that's okay. And
all of us are thinking everyone's
thinking about us and they're thinking
about themselves or the people in their
life. They're not thinking about some
guy on a podcast except for like maybe
an hour and then it's over and then like
they they're thinking about the people
in their life. So letting go of like
what people think about you. Um cuz
that's a prison cuz then suddenly you're
making things for approval
>> and then you lose your courage. That's
the main thing. It's just like the like
mental energy. But I really like try to
do things that are meaningful
>> and meaningful things are really two
buckets. It's making and spending time
with people. care about. That's just
those are two things.
>> Anything else is like kind of an
obligation where I'll do it once in a
while.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, [music] it's unfortunately far
too easy for something to slip through
the cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a
powerful tool [music] designed to
simplify and automate your security work
and deliver a single source of truth for
compliance and risk. There's a reason
that RMP, Cursor, and Snowflake all use
Vanta. It frees them to focus on
building amazing differentiated products
knowing that compliance and security are
under control. Invest like the best
listeners get a special offer of $1,000
off Vanta when you go to
vanta.com/invest.
[music]
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even [music] worse,
adding more complexity, more headcount,
and more risk. Ridgeline offers a better
way forward. One unified platform that
automates away that complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, trading, [music] compliance,
and more, all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
helping ambitious firms scale faster,
[music] operate smarter, and stay ahead
of the curve. See what Ridgeline can
unlock for your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai. There are two very
different ideas I'm curious for you to
react to. The first was uh made famous
by Warren Buffett who said, "You want to
buy as an investor businesses that a ham
sandwich could run because eventually
one will." And think not to pick on
anyone but think about like the card uh
payment processors like Visa or
Mastercard like just extremely elegant
business models. Actually a network
effect businesses like Airbnb tend to be
in this category.
>> And then you've got this this opposite
end of the spectrum which is one of my
favorite [clears throat] investors early
stage investor said he tells every
founder that they should think about the
company as a platform or a vehicle for
their own personal growth. Yeah.
>> And that their ability to grow will set
the ceiling for the company. This is
sort of like opposite ideas and and
we've been talking a lot more about
leadership in this like second bucket.
I'm curious how you think about like
whether or not you care that if
eventually a ham sandwich ran Airbnb
like the business model would be so
perfected that it wouldn't matter in the
Warren Buffett sense and just like in
general as you how you think about if
that's true that your ceiling is the
company's ceiling as its leader.
>> I think they're both true. Let me try to
square those at one example. I agree
with both sentiments. Here's an example.
Walt Disney.
So
people watching, I want them to try to
name a Paramount Pictures film.
>> Hard.
>> I want you to name a Warner Brothers
film. Maybe you'll think of like Batman.
I want you to name a Universal Pictures
film. I want you to name something from
the MGM library. Pretty hard, right?
>> But I bet you can name a lot of Disney
films and probably Pixar during their
golden age. There's a big difference in
those two. One is that Disney was very
founder-ledd and that Disney was all
about a personal expression of one man.
And the irony is the longer a company is
run by founders in a founder mode, the
more I think it can let go and anyone
can run it. I think [snorts] Disney, not
to take away from the CEO of Disney, um
the new guy Josh is really great. I've
met him. He's great. And I think they've
had a lot of good CEOs. But I generally
think like they're the CEO Disney has
the bases loaded,
>> right? You've got this incredible theme
park that like people are going to visit
no matter how well it's run. They've got
this incredible IP. It's not that it's
an easy job, but like [snorts]
Walt left so much. And I remember I was
speaking to the former CFO at Disney
once, this was like 10 years ago, and he
said Disney hasn't really done anything
new since Walt died. Walt died in 1966.
Since 1966, we still make feature anime
films, TV, and Magic Kingdoms. And of
course, yeah, they do new things, but
fundamentally that's the same playbook.
And so I do think that that's an example
where
the founder reinventing the company and
their expression created such a
reservoir of IP of momentum that 50 he
died 50 years ago. 50 years later, Walt
Disney spirit seems very very
omnipresent. Whereas Louis B Meyer, I
don't know if most people can tell you
which uh studio he was, you know. Um I
think it was MGM and I'm not even I
think it was MGM and I couldn't even
tell you the other two people. You see
what I'm saying? There's a there's
>> huge difference.
>> Huge difference. [snorts]
>> So I generally think this is a paradox.
I think you know Yeah. the the ham
sandwich, you know, have a business so
good can run it because sooner or later
they will. The best businesses are ones
that founders run and they reinvent and
they create so much equity and such a
great moat that then when they hand it
off they will endure and grow after
them. I think Apple's very similar.
They've had not had to invent new
products for the most part. They're
still running the iPhone. I mean what a
gift Steve left them that you know they
were a few hundred billion dollar
company when he died. They're like a
multi- trillion dollar company now. Um I
think the one caveat is I think tech
companies are different. Warren Buffett
generally didn't invest in tech
companies. We didn't invest with the
exception of Apple. So I think you know
you know like Coca-Cola was a big
investment of his or like Seas Candy you
know these are things that don't get
disrupted. I think technology is a
cinema for change. If we're in the
change industry you kind of need to be
more in founder mode more time. But I
think that's how I square it that the
company is a it the upper bound of the
founders's potential
>> and then the [clears throat] longer
you're in founder mode the more it will
endure. I remember one founder told me I
want this company last 100 years so
therefore I can't be in all the details
and so therefore I need to empower
people and I remember saying if you want
something to be around for 100 years you
want to control it as long as possible
and keep it in founder mode as long as
possible like Disney. That's my theory.
That's I think that's counterintuitive.
And I think people say, "Oh, but like
the company's going to get very um
dependent on you." Well, yeah, but the
alternative is you're going to have so
institutionalized
this magic
>> that it can endure after you.
>> Edwin Land, the founder of Polaroid, was
very famous for using Ancel Adams as his
like ultimate tester of his equipment.
And so he cared about the most important
maybe best photographer of all time and
what he thought of his device comes to
mind when you talk about Disney because
there's something about I have this
visual of of Walt just like continuing
to drill down to some sort of bedrock or
something and that like that's the
mission that you're on as a founder is
like bedrock.
>> Yeah, I love that.
>> What what is what is that for you from
this point forward? Like as you keep
drilling, what is the nature like what
what do you think you're still after?
Where is there still room for your
ceiling to raise so that the businesses
can
>> A few things come to mind. You [snorts]
know, when people think of Airbnb, if
you're close your eyes and say, "I want
you to think of a picture of Airbnb, you
probably think of a house."
>> Um, we're a noun and a verb like
Kleenex, which is amazing and not
amazing. It's amazing in that like we're
kind of the category leader. It's also
tough because when you're Kleenex, you
want to sell shampoo. They're like,
"Wait a second. I'm not putting Kleenex
on my head." Right?
>> So, there's it's a it's a double-edged
sword. brand. So the [clears throat]
bedrock for me is how do I change the
atomic unit of Airbnb from a home to a
person.
>> I do not want Airbnb to be about homes.
I want it to be about people and I want
the people to be atomic unit. And on
Airb you can get a home, you get
experience, you can get a service,
eventually a flight, eventually this
that. I want imagine a a like a person
in the center with a ring with like 50
things around. These are the things you
can get. And so that is the thing the
bedrock of Airbnb is going to be
identity profile the person's
preferences. I want to develop the most
authenticated identity on the internet.
Proof of personhood is going to be
really really important in an age of AI
artificial. I want to develop the most
robust profile on the internet. I mean
it used to be Facebook. They've kind of
abandoned that strategy. I want to build
one of the richest preference libraries
of you as a person.
>> Uh because that would be useful to have.
I want to build a social graph but in
the real world and I [clears throat]
want to eventually have a membership
program where you get all these
different benefits. So the bedrock is
the person
>> and then I want to basically figure out
how we can launch like Amazon Amazon
from books to like 100 things. I don't
want us to just have homes. I want us to
have a hundred things. So we need to
develop this industrialized machine of
understanding what are the like you know
atomic units or the primitives that are
consistent across all these different
businesses and then the last one is AI
you know we have a bit of the
innovator's dilemma you know plus or
minus hundred billion dollars goes
through our app I have all these visions
to like totally change it but you're a
public company you know and you're like
giving guidance and the difference
between like missing and hitting
earnings is you really but not just
being public company people's livelihood
depends on Airbnb if we mess with
something somebody could go from like
making a living not making a living so
you got to be very careful and yet that
is not an environment for mass
innovation when you're being really
careful so I'm also exploring little
sandboxes you know maybe you know like
almost like a separate app like what
what is a radically like
radically different Airbnbs it's like
What's after Airbnb? Airbnb. What's
that? What's the next? And so, so I'm
starting to think about. So, those are
the three things I'm thinking about.
Number one, how do we take the atomic
unit from a home to a person? Number
two, how do we basically industrialize
what Airbnb offers to do like 50 things,
not three things? And then, how do we
like disrupt ourselves before someone
else does with AI without screwing over
our investors and our hosts who depend
on us? Maybe the last thing I'm thinking
just as a CEO is
I think I've reached a certain level of
mastery. I've reached a mastery of like
product market fit, hyperrowth,
profitability. I'm beginning level four.
Level four is reinvent yourself, product
extension. I think there's something
potentially even beyond that in age of
AI, which is like one of my strengths is
all my experience and that's also my
weakness now. Like I'm 44. I'm not old,
but I'm not young. I'm not AI native in
the same way a 22-year-old is. is that
doesn't doesn't even here's a bad
example. When I started me I was 25 26
and we were competing against Expedia
and we were on like they were on like
Outlook and we used Google Docs and we
were like we had an iPhone. It all seems
anacronistic now but back then
>> that was innovative and we were on the
coolest new tools and we just moved
faster. Pablo Picasso another quote he
said the older you get the stronger the
wing gets and it's always in your face.
You got to stay light on your feet. You
got to stay young. You got to keep
reinventing yourself. You got to have
curiosity. And so I don't want to become
like this old school person in the
groove. I got to reinvent myself.
>> One of the things that as I've been
building stuff myself really for the
[clears throat] first time, like I'm I'm
not an engineer. I used to build stuff,
but I'd tell people and it would come
the feedback loop was like painfully
slow and lossy. Now it's like 5 to 15
minutes and pretty high fidelity and
soon it'll be 5 seconds and perfect
fidelity. And so there's this like uh I
always love Brett Victor's idea of
wanting to be as close to the output,
the input and the output being as linked
as possible. And we're getting to that
stage.
>> The the the anxiety I have having this
experience is that it feels like just
nothing will last. And as I think about
I love business. I love business as a uh
an art form. I guess that historically
there's been these ways to have enduring
moes. People would always call them. you
have 200 million people that you know a
lot about already. You've got hundreds
of millions of reviews that lots of
information on places like you have
these embedded things that you can't I
can't just get that from you. But it
just seems as I build this stuff like oh
the the it's going to be really hard to
have something enduring and lasting.
Yeah. Now do you share that anxiety? How
does that make you feel that the as the
frictions fall it also feels like the
the pot of gold at the end of the
rainbow is like disappearing into the
distance or something? Take a fashion
brand like Hermes, I think the most
valuable fashion single fashion brand in
the world. And like the Birkin bag and
the Kelly bag, it's like they have a new
product every like decade or something.
Like these are like multi-deade old
things and they appreciate and they
resale. And then you've got like Zara
fast fashion. And I feel like we all
want to make these things that endure,
but we're living in like like the the
hyper fast fashion of software. If you
look at software from 10 years ago, no
matter how great it was at the time, it
looks really old and dated. You look at
hardware from 10 years ago, it looks
pretty decent. You look at interior
design, it looks pretty good. You look
at build or better. You look at
buildings and after a certain period of
time, they've got this patina and
they're wonderful. You go to Paris and
old endures.
>> So environments and physical worlds have
got huge endurance.
Hardware and physical things have medium
endurance. Software is extremely
ephemeral. Opinions are like that, but
some ideas permeate. And so
this is something that I'm
that I'm I'm wrestling with myself
because I want to make things that
endure. And I don't know how I've
reconciled it except to say this. I kind
of realized I obsess over our app,
Airbnb's app. It's designed, its
interface. And yet, no matter how great
it is 10 years from now, I'm going to
look at it and think it looks like crap.
>> Cuz I look at the interface from 10
years ago and think it looks like crap.
No matter how good it was. Data software
never looks good. So then you got to ask
like what endures? I do think there are
things that endure. Airbnb the community
endures. I started realizing the
software won't endure but the and the
network effect will decently endure but
the ideas of Airbnb its principles its
mission the organization the company the
brand the identity the logo the voice
the community what it stands for those
things will endure [snorts] most
importantly the community I realized at
some point I told the company we're not
building an app we're not building a
service we're building a community and
that's cuz because that's the only thing
that will last I don't think there will
be apps In the future, I think there'll
be agents.
>> So, like if we're attached to apps, I
don't think there will be apps. So, we
better like let go of that.
>> So, many of the themes that we've talked
about is this um steady progress and
learning through time applied in service
of others. What did bodybuilding when
you were young teach you about steady
progress over time?
>> Weirdly, bodybuilding taught me so much
that I could apply to Silicon Valley. It
taught me two important principles. So I
just as by way of background, my dad my
dad was really into ice hockey, wanting
me to be an ice hockey player.
Unfortunately, I was very skinny. I hit
puberty really late. And I went to a
sports academy for hockey.
>> And when I was 13, I thought I could be
a really good hockey player, but by the
time I was 14, you know, I didn't hit
puberty till I was like 15 or 16. And
that's a death sentence in hockey
because suddenly I went from like first
or second line to third or fourth line.
And I went from a a division thinking
I'd be a division one athlete to
division three athlete. I'm like, "Okay,
it's not really going to work out for
me." And so I started weightlifting. I
was like 135 lbs. And I told my friends
I'm going to be like one of the most I I
want to be one of the top boats in the
country by the time I'm 19. And they
thought I was like out of my mind. I
ended up by 19 competing at the national
level. And the first lesson I learned
from bodybuilding was if you can change
your body, you can change your life.
That it was actually the most
fundamental thing to change. Like
everyone wants to change things around
them, but what if you change you first
physically? And I I even think like I
would if you could start somewhere a lot
of people say like ch change your
thoughts. I would change your body
first.
>> Like change your physical biology, but
if you're like unhappy like I would I
would get healthy like before I go to
therapy. Like like that's first biology.
I think that fixes a lot and then you
can do other things. But really start
with your physical biology. If you can
change your body, you can change your
life. It was the ultimate expression
empowerment. Okay, now I changed my
body. What else can I change?
>> It's a metaphor for eventually you can
design the world around you. I can
change your body. I can change my
environment. Eventually I can change the
world. It's like you just go inside out.
But the other thing it taught me which
might be even more helpful is that you
can't get in shape in one day. And if
you go to the gym and work out for like
20 hours, you're not going to get in
better shape. In fact, you're going to
overtrain.
>> [snorts]
>> And the way you get stronger is an
adaptation from progressive overload
that you basically, you know, you stress
the body. The body doesn't get stronger
during exercise. It actually breaks the
muscles down and it's an adaptive
response like an immune system. It gets
stronger and you just keep doing it. The
basic idea is that you can't get in
shape in one day and it's about 1%
better every single day. And if you
compound 1% a day, then you can actually
have massive gains. And so it's really
about discipline. And it's also very
analytical. Bodybuilding is this
wonderful thing where it's judged. It's
it's a subjective sport that you judge
visually, but you measure it
scientifically. You weigh your food. You
have to put yourself in the right
caloric deficit. You have to write down
your training. You have to write down
your weights. It's like taught me to be
very analytical, metrics driven, and
that it's really about discipline,
consistency. And I think that's
important because I think a lot of
founders just give up too early. It's
about discipline. And it's about like,
you know, if you train for a month, you
take a month off, you're starting over.
>> And that's the key. You never quit. You
just keep going.
>> One of the nice things about it is the
visual feedback. Like you just judge
visually. You can literally see it. You
can look in the mirror. Other people can
look at you and say you've been working
out.
>> Probably some of the skills that you
would want to apply the same progressive
overload thing to as a leader are very
invisible. How do you figure out the
objective function? Like how do you
apply that same thing to something else
that other people can't see?
>> Well, that's interesting. I stop trying
to focus on like how good of a company
everybody is and I take it to like the
project. So I'll give you one example of
a project I focus on. One is I want to
build the best team possible. So I
basically like twice a year we do this
like giant thing we call roadmap review
and there's the top 100 people in the
room and I see the quality of the people
in the room and we did one the last two
days and then one of my most important
jobs the most important job I do at
Airbnb is hiring. That's a whole
separate topic.
>> And the visual feedback is every twice a
year I get the top 100 people in the
room and I can see the quality of the
people in the conversation. So in other
words, there's many metrics that you use
and I obsess over. Maybe it's the app
and I just look at the design of the
app. Maybe it's like how well the
company operates and I look at
decision-making. So I it's always about
breaking the problem down to something
that's observable and measurable.
>> Um, by the way, just on this because
this is a really important point.
Basically, as a leader, you can choose
if you want to spend time hiring or
managing. One or the other.
[clears throat]
>> The better the people, the less they
need to be managed. The more time you
spend on recruiting, the less time you
have to spend on management. It's one to
one. I remember when I was starting
Airbnb, um Sam Alman, who obviously
everyone knows now is OpenAI. He was
like a kind of wonderkin when I because
I was I was like one of the first
Sequoia funed companies before me were
two people that had ever been funded by
Sequoia from white com Drew Hston from
Dropbox. But the first one was Sam Alman
this company called Looped. It was like
a kind of like a way to see your friends
on a phone before the iPhone. And I
remember him telling me I was like 27 or
28 Sequoia just funded us $600,000 at a
$3 million post money valuation highest
valuation why commentator. Now the
average valuation is 30 million. And he
said, "You're going to spend 50% of your
time on hiring." I never did, by the
way. It was my death blow, not spending
more time on hiring. The less time I
spent on hiring, the more time I spent
managing. And I started learning my
number one job was hiring. Every day I
wake up and I the first person I call is
my recruiter. I actually think if you
could have I think people should think
about their first employee being a
recruiter,
>> not an engineer because like they are
the like the most important person
because they are the ones that like get
you every other person.
>> I mean a company is as good as it people
and the difference between like the good
companies the great companies are the
people and I think AI kind of makes that
clear now that like what's all about the
people but I obsess
>> I obsess over recruiting. I spend hours
a day and I don't recruit executives. I
recruit two, three layers deep.
>> What are you doing? Are you beyond
talking to them?
>> I try to map out all the best people in
the valley. And the basic way, okay,
here's how you hire good people. Do not
do searches. Do not do searches.
Generally, what you want to do is build
pipelines. So, here's the mistake people
make when they hire. They do, I need to
hire a blank. So, they do a search. They
hire a search firm. And the search firm
scans, they give you like 50 profiles
and then you like you like call it down
to 10 people. You contact 10. Five are
interested. Of the five they're
interested, you interview them. A couple
drop out. Now you have three candidates
and you pick the best one you hire. And
that's how almost everyone and then you
do references. You ask them for
references. They give you a few
references and of course they're
positive and then you kind of hire them
and then you let let them do their thing
and a year later you realize like
they're good or bad and if they're bad
uh oh they've already hired their own
team. That is the wrong way to do it. So
the best way to do is pipeline
recruiting. You're constantly
recruiting. You're constantly meeting
people. So this is what you do.
You basically are constantly meeting
people. So let's say I need to hire
really good engineers. I don't do
searches. I just informationally meet
the best engineers in the world. Every
meeting the job is to get the next
meeting, meet someone else. So if I were
to meet you and I say, "Hey, who's the
best people you know? Can you introduce
me to two or three people?" So what
you're doing is you're constantly
meeting people in advance of searches
and you're just building your pipeline.
You just need to know lots of talent and
all of it's referral-based. The two ways
to find out if people are good. I mean,
one way is you're just good at assessing
talent.
But the two best ways is start with the
results, work backwards to people. So, a
lot of people say like, oh, like I want
like a really good marketer. I'm going
to go to Nike. They do really good
marketing. No, no, don't do that. Find
an an ad you like
>> and they figure out who made that ad.
Start with results. Work back with
people. Don't start with the resume. The
other thing to do is just keep asking
people to build your rolodex. And so I'm
constantly building a rolodex and the
moment I find somebody that's really
good, I ask them who all the best people
they know are. And I basically build
these little mafias like there's the
this like this comp every company's got
like a little mafia of talent.
>> So like Uber's got like an ops mafia,
>> you know, and like Apple's got like a
design mafia and then like like you know
you build these little ecosystems and
they tell you who the other good people
are and you're constantly finding more
people more people. And what I do is I
am the co-hiring manager for the top 200
people in the company. This is very
radical. A lot of CEOs think it's their
job to hire their executive and their
executive team hires their team. I think
that is fatal. I mean theoretically yes.
Theoretically you should live in a world
where you have such good people they can
all hire their own people. Most
entrepreneurs if they have 10 executives
would be lucky if two or three are able
to do that without any support or help.
You in other words you always want to be
like marrying up hiring people the
future. And so I'm const I sometimes
used to say like my executives should
hire people so good they would never
work for them without my help.
>> In other words, it should be like we're
reaching. If you can hire them without
my help, we're not reaching far enough.
You want to like hire the very best
person you can. So I'm constantly
meeting people, constantly interviewing.
The first and last call I make every day
is the recruiting team.
>> Still,
>> still I probably spend two, three hours
a day on it.
>> And every day, every year I spend more
time my time on recruiting the less. By
the way, in the 2000s, I didn't. I
thought it was all about like having a
good idea, having a recruiting machine,
managing people. The great thing is I
don't manage this much anymore.
>> The more time you spend recruiting, less
time spend on management because the
really good people just are
self-managing.
>> This is amazing. And if you have to
manage people, then maybe you should
think about, you know, like upgrading
the talent.
>> You said before that founders are born,
you think, and CEOs can be more shaped
>> for the most part. And maybe the caveat
to that is just like maybe founders
aren't born but we were like spent our
whole life tinkering and building and
you know what I mean but you can't
simulate being a CEO.
>> I was going to I was going to ask like
whether or not you think they're
activated in some way like maybe there's
the raw material but then some event
happens. Um uh Sean from Palunteer would
call this the like uh the Bruce Banner
you know gamma rays thing or something.
>> What have you learned about activating
talent? I think the way to activate
somebody is to give them a problem or
opportunity and see if they can do it.
>> And I think the people that have a high
level of like
agency are going to do it. I don't
[clears throat] know how to teach
motivation. I don't know if it can be
taught by the way. I don't know if you
can teach. I think you can motivate
people, but I don't think you can make a
person who's not motivated motivated.
So, but I think all entrepreneurs have
the trait of their self-motivated. And
so it's really about giving them a
challenge and then it's up to them to
step in and and activate.
>> Having plugged the leaky bucket of
motivation of agilation, what what's
your motivation now as you attack this
next chapter?
>> Most of my heroes are artist. I'll pick
like I'll pick four people. Um two I've
mentioned repeatedly. Leo da Vinci,
Vincent Van Gogh, Walt Disney, Steve
Jobs. [clears throat]
There's many things they had in common,
but what is something they all had in
common? The last day of their life or
the last week of their life, they were
working.
>> Leonardo da Vinci carried the Mona Lisa
with them until he died. And he
definitely didn't paint the Mona Lisa
for agilation because he never like
showed it to anyone. Vincent Van Gogh
sold one painting in his life. He died
obscure artist in the cornfield. Unclear
what happened. maybe killed like unclear
what happened but
did it cuz he loved it. Walt Disney last
day of his life he was laying in
hospital bed his brother Roy Roy was
like rubbing his cold feet dying of lung
cancer looking at the ceiling tiles
which were a grid imagining Disney
World. Steve Jobs Heroki said the last
couple weeks of his life he like showed
him like marketing like he was still
like looking at products. Now some
people can look at that in
interpretation as oh that's sad like
they weren't spending time with family.
By the way Vincent Van Go and Dainci
didn't have families. My understanding
is Steve and Walt spent time with their
family at the end of their life. But I
don't see that as a sad story they're
working in the end because I think they
did what they loved and Mozart you know
the the great artist in history did what
they love. My motivation is the
motivation of an artist. I remember
asking you know I just want my
motivation is to create something great.
That is my motivation. I would like to
be successful. I want our shareholders
to get a return. I would like employees
to feel they're at a great company. I
would love to make a huge impact in the
world. But mostly I just want to make
something.
>> I feel like I'm a designer more than I
am a CEO. And I might be afforded one of
the great biggest canvases of any
designer in human history. Cuz usually
designers are just not given this many
resources. It's almost like a glitch in
a system. I like figured it was almost
like accidental. I like some error beds
allowed me to crack this glitch and get
all these resources I wasn't supposed to
get.
>> But I'm not letting go. And so my
motivation is that of an artist. I just
want to make incredible things.
>> It's a beautiful almost closing thought
given the tools now at our disposal that
everyone can do that if they want. And I
>> I think everyone's an artist. All
children are born artists. The problems
remain one as you grow up. AI is the
opportunity for all of us to become
artists and scientists and creators. We
don't have to be consumers anymore.
>> We can be creators.
>> What a shift.
>> True creators. And we hear the word
creator, you think social media
performer. That's one way to create. You
can perform. The problem is I think
creator has been performance. Now
creator can be create. Make
>> everyone can make now. It's amazing.
Maybe I'll just share one other thought.
God, this seems like the most exciting
time to be alive like in human history.
I mean, I'm kind of biased, but you
know, this is the greatest invention
probably in human history. AI, it is the
ultimate creative expression. It is the
ultimate platform shift of platform
shifts of platform shifts. I the most
recent why I come to dinner, I looked at
all the entrepreneurs in the audience
and I said, I'm kind of jealous because
here I am on stage pretending like I'm
the successful guy talking to you, the
young kids. And 2 3 years ago, I used to
say I would never do it all over again
cuz I'm afraid I would never have this
level of success again. Part of me
wishes I can be 26
>> and get rid of all success and see
what's possible again. And then I
realized it's age to number. I I can
still act like I'm 26.
>> I'm still young. I still got more in me.
I'm just getting started. We're all just
getting started. This is the most
exciting time to be alive. And my god,
like we can design anything now. It's
unbelievable. The last question I ask
everyone's the same. What is the kindest
thing that anyone's ever done for you?
>> Oh, it's such a good question.
The kindest thing, the biggest gift
anyone's given me is believe in me. And
I think the biggest gift you can give
somebody or one of the biggest gifts is
believe in you.
A couple examples.
When I was 16 years old,
um I transferred to a public high
school. I was really into art. I was a
pretty good artist. I didn't know how
good I was. And I had a teacher named
Miss Williams and she believed in me and
she I remember telling her telling my
parents he's going to be a famous
artist. I'd never became famous artist
but it gave me confidence that I was
actually good at something because
[clears throat] I wasn't that good at
hockey and I I wish I was and I wish I
could make my dad proud of ice hockey. I
just didn't get very far. And suddenly
that belief set me on a path and that
that moment I said I'm going to go to
art school. And that moment I realized I
can decide to be happy the rest of my
life. When you're a child, you do things
cuz you're forced to. And like 20% of
your life you get to do whatever you
want and 80% of your life you go to
school and you do things and you're
forced to do them. [snorts]
>> And I said I can be happy the rest of my
life.
>> I came to Silicon Valley. I met Michael
Cable and the guys at Justin TV and they
believed in me. They were early YC
people.
Paul Graham made an exception to let me
an early Y come. He believed in me I was
an engineer and he almost never funded
non-engineers. He thought the idea was
not a good idea actually. He said people
are actually doing this. I go yes. He
goes what's wrong with them? But he
believed in me. My investors I can go
down the list of investors. They
believed in me. Joe and Nate believed in
me. I was a I had no business being a
CEO. Joe somehow believed in me.
I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for the
generosity of people believing in me and
in helping me. And I think the greatest
gift I can give back in believing in
others and help them and not pull the
ladder up behind me but to like really
show them. You know, I had the great
privilege to eventually like join the
giving pledge and you have to write a
letter. I remember my letter was if you
could ask my high school teachers who
would join the giving pledge, they
wouldn't have guessed me. [laughter]
The basic idea in my life philosophy is
we all have unknown potential. And I
think we have these stories in our own
head about what we're capable of. And to
go back to John Wooden, somebody once
asked him, I think like what's the
secret to success? And he said, "I only
ask my players to do their very best."
And they, the person goes, "Oh, wow.
That seems weird. That sounds like what
like a parent says of the kid who like
loses all the time." Goes, "Here's a
catch. I saw potential in people they
didn't see in themselves. And that's my
management philosophy. When I tell
somebody it's not good enough, I'm not
saying you're not good enough. I'm
saying I see potential and you don't see
in yourself. That is the most motivating
thing you can do to say I believe in you
and I believe you can do even more.
>> And people will they will they will they
will climb a mountain for that type of
thing.
And
maybe the way to finally end this whole
conversation
is the most important person ever that
you can believe in is yourself. And I
think a lot of us that are entrepreneurs
were driven by insecurity. We're driven
by some hole. Not all of us, but a lot
of us. Something in our childhood,
something. A lot of us were not the
coolest kids or whatever. And there's
something in us we wanted to prove. And
and then you get really successful and
you still have imposttor syndrome. And
and a lot of a lot of like the path to
happiness and salvation is just the path
of like learning to believe in yourself.
>> And you know, for me, I only believed
myself long after other people believed
in me. And now my gift is to try to give
it to others.
>> Beautiful place to close. Brian, thanks
for [music]
>> Thank you very much. Thank you.
>> Thanks, man.
>> You know how small advantages compound
over time? That's true in investing. And
just as true in how you run your
company, your spending system is your
capital allocation strategy. [music]
RAMP makes it smarter by default. Better
data, better decisions, better economics
over time. [music] See how at
ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance and giving
[music] you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street.
Connected to your data, understanding
your process, [music] and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to cursor to perplexity. Use work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
[music] not in months. Visit works.com
to skip the unglamorous infrastructure
work and focus on your product.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true [music] partner,
not just a software vendor. They've
helped firms 5x in scale, enabling
faster growth, smarter operations, and a
competitive [music] edge. Visit
ridgelineapps.com to see what they can
unlock for your firm.